We want to learn more about the DAX formulas, to be more precise,
we want to learn more about the calculated columns.
Now you may not know what that is exactly at the moment but you will learn that in this and in the next
video,
so let's start
and as you can see, we are not in our course project, we are again in the new small project just to show
you that calculated columns topic.
Now you can find that project file of course attached to that video.
Now what can we see in that project file?
I am in the data view so I am in the data model of course
and we have two tables.
The first table is called Calculated-Columns-Revenue and what you can see right there is that we
have the Date, Revenue A and Revenue B, so for two different products for instance and the total cost
that occurred for that two products. In the second table, the Calculated-Columns-Units table,
you can also find the date, the units sold for Product A and the units sold for Product B,
so that's what we have at the moment.
Now let's go back to the first table and create some calculated columns using some DAX formulas.
Now the first thing you might want to know in here is the total revenue, to calculate that, you can simply
go to new column, name it total revenue, like this maybe and now simply refer to the
first column, Revenue A and write plus Revenue B and press enter
and as you can see, we simply calculated the total revenue of product A and product B.
Now let's maybe also have a look at the margin, so that we can see what is actually our profitability
of those two products that we sell. To do that,
we again have to create a new column right here, call that margin like that
and now we can write a formula, we can use the divide formula for instance like this. If you are press
tab,
then we have to define the numerator which would be the total cost in our case,
so like this, the denominator which would be the total revenue that we have to define an alternate result and
this should be zero in our case.
If we press OK right now or enter, then you can see that we calculated something but this is not the margin
right because this is cost divided by total revenue,
so we have to add something.
Let's go back to our formula and simply write 1 - the result of this thing and close the bracket,
like this
and now we have the total margin.
The only problem that we have is that the formatting,
well this is not really good, right? Now to format that column,
we can do the same thing that we did with the date,
we can go to the modeling ribbon, go to format and now say this is a percentage for instance, like this
and now we created a DAX formula and we formatted that already.
This is quite easy right, now
let's add some more functionalities,
let's say we want to make a difference for each day depending on the margin.
So let's say if the margin was above 65%, this was a good day,
if it is below that, it was a bad day.
How could we do something like this in a DAX formula?
Well let's see.
So we can again go to the new column ribbon right here
and define that as margin check maybe, like this and what you can do now is you can simply write if,
you can find it right here and press tab
and then we want to have the margin, right, so we can select that column again and press tab.
If that margin is larger than 0.65, so 65%, then this should result in
and we could write that in quotation marks
good day like this
maybe, if this is not the case,
so if the margin is equal or below 65, then this should result in bad day like this
and if you now press enter, you can see that we have exactly what we wanted to have.
So we now created an if formula in our DAX world,
this was also easy, right?
Now what if you want to add some more data to the table?
For instance the units sold and we have that in another table,
I know that but how can you refer to that table and get the data into your table right here?
Let's see how this works.
So we again create another column right here and we could call it units A
and now you could write the square brackets, then you can only refer to the columns that you have in
this table and
this is not what we want,
so we can delete that.
Maybe if you write the name of the other table, calculate it, this looks good,
calculated columns, revenue, no, now we also cannot find it right here,
so this also doesn't work.
We need another function and this function is called related, like this,
returns a related value from another table.
Let's try that out.
So I press tab right now and if we now write the square brackets, nothing is happening right now,
why is this not working?
Well the problem is simply that we don't have any relationship to the other table
but we know how to create relationships, right?
So let's keep that formula the way it is right now and simply press enter and go quickly to our relationships
menu right here and now create a one-to-one relationship between those two tables, like this
and as you can see, we established that relationship already.
Now if we now go back to our data view and go back to our formula, we can now see that we don't have to write those
square brackets but that we can simply select the related column out of that related table,
in our case, this should be the unit sold, A like this. If we now press tab and enter, then we can see that
we exactly retrieve the data from the other table with that formula.
So this is the related function and how you can basically use it,
so we now have the units sold of Product A
but we have the total revenue now calculated,
we have the total cost,
so maybe we'd want to have total units sold and we can do that quite easily.
If we just click onto that column again with our related formula,
select the whole related formula, press control Z and now write plus and paste the formula and simply
exchange unit sold A with units sold B as you can see right here and maybe name that units sold now
and press enter
and now you see that you got the total units sold already in that column.
So this is also great,
let's now maybe change that formula one last time.
What if we want to have the average sales per unit in that column?
We could also do that easily because we calculated the total revenue already,
so the only thing we have to do is we have to click into the formula right here, write a square bracket,
write
total revenue
and here it comes and select it and now divide that and setting the brackets correctly, like this and renaming
that formula to sales per unit and press enter
and now we also calculated the sales per unit in this column.
So this was quite nice, right
and this is of course only a basic overview of what you can do with such DAX formulas in relation to
the calculated columns. Now I'm always mentioning that calculated columns,
why am I saying that?
Well if you look at the operations that we did so far, you can see that those always refer to all rows
of one specific column,
we didn't calculate something like a total of a column. Each value refers to each of the single row in
the corresponding column
but there is something else and if you want to create something like the average of the sales per unit
of the column or the sum of the sales per unit, you cannot use a calculated column,
you have to use something else
and what is something else is and what the difference is to that calculated columns, let's learn that in
the next video.